# AlienAmbassador
CSCI1300 Final Project - Alien Ambassador C++ Text Based Game

Alien Ambassador is a text based game that is influenced by ‘caretaking’ simulators like tamagotchis or the Sims. Earth is at war with Sumac9, a harsh world filled with Sumacian aliens, and it’s your job as the Ambassador to use your diplomatic skills to please and appeal to the Sumacian leader Gorlock. The hope is that by presenting a peace treaty at the right time you can finally help end the war.
The game throws you into the presence of Gorlock with a time limit to present the peace treatise, some cash to use for food or entertainment and a rough idea of how to please him. As you play the game, you begin to learn what Gorlock likes/dislikes. Gorlock has a mood and impression. Mood is affected by his nourishment, fun, and energy levels. These things fluctuate throughout the day and it’s your job to make sure his needs are met. Gorlock’s impression is fixed and is affected by what activities you do with respect to his mood. For example, if he’s in a good mood and you crack a joke - his impression of you increases. Otherwise, if he’s in a decent or poor mood, your joke might not fly and his impression of you decreases.
Moreover, impression is affected by the number of positive and negative interactions you have. Positive and negative interactions occur based on you winning/losing games, wrestling matches, or picking the wrong meal for Gorlock. One more thing to balance is time. There are 10.0 Earth hours in 1 Sumacian day and you only have between 5-10 Sumacian days (depending on the difficulty you choose) to present the peace treaty. Certain events and items become accessible throughout the day and certain activities take longer than others - so you’re encouraged to prioritize activities based on Gorlock’s needs. Speaking of which, you know where you stand based on conversations and reactions - if he’s being rude, it’s probably because he doesn’t respect you. You can listen to him to get a rough idea of his mood and needs. You can also explicitly check his stats by accessing your computer log and pay a hacker to hack into Gorlock’s Bio Stats. The computer log also displays the day, time, number of positive and negative interactions, and score.
You win the game by making sure it’s at least been 2 days, you’ve had more positive than negative interactions and making sure Gorlock’s impression of you is relatively high and that he’s in a decent mood the moment you present the treatise. If you fail to meet this criterion you lose. But also have a chance of losing by running out of days, picking a fight you’re not ready for or not paying off a thief who’s got a knife to your back.
